hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is a video on how to purchase
the best notebook when you're on a
budget so I often get emails or messages
about just people asking me what the
best notebook is right now or which of
this short list is the best notebook for
me and the truth is no one knows what
the best notebook is for you better than
you do so just to get this out of the
way this isn't like a top 10 list of the
cheapest notebooks or anything it's more
of a guide on how to purchase the
notebook that best suits you so the
first thing you need to figure out is
what you plan on using your notebook for
I mean what specifically do you use it
for now the standard response is oh I do
a bunch of things like web browsing
email game programming app programing
photo editing video editing you know
gaming 3d rendering and like 99% of the
time this just isn't accurate there are
very few people in this world that
actually do all these things off of one
machine so figure out what it is that
you'll be doing and more specifically
what apps or games you want to run and
you'll often find that you don't need as
powerful of a machine as you thought you
did so if you're student going to
college for engineering or architecture
or comps I speak to students in older
years like the sophomore year and ask
them what programs they're running on
their computers and if you're into like
music production or something try to
figure out what production suite you're
going to be working with because once
you figure out what apps or games you
want to be running it's a lot easier to
figure out what things you need to focus
on and what features you can be kind of
cut out
now most people don't need particularly
powerful notebooks they use them for
school and work and like media
consumption like YouTube or Netflix and
maybe some light photo editing and
gaming and I would classify this as
normal use and most programmers actually
fit in here as well you can code most
apps or 2d games with very light
hardware your compiled times might be a
little slow but there's tons of
successful apps and games that were
coded using really slow computers and
you can do it too so for a normal user
what kind of specs are we looking for in
terms of your CPU don't give it too much
thought even like a core M or Atom on
the surface three those things are
sufficient to run normal tasks and the
graphics cards same thing don't worry
about it it really doesn't matter any
notebook purchased in 2015 complacent
light games using the integrated
graphics so you're good now for memory
it depends on how many programs and tabs
you want open at a time anything from
two to four gigs is sufficient you can
comfortably get by with four gigs even
in Windows 10 and it's actually pretty
hard to make use of eight gigs even an
app or a game development now if you're
on a tight budget as a normal user the
one area I would still focus on is the
drive get something with an SSD or
install your own because this will make
your computer feel faster than any other
upgrade that you would put at it again
if you're a normal user don't worry
about the CPU don't worry about the
graphics don't worry too much but Ram
just get a fast solid-state drive if you
do some heavy photo editing or if you do
a lot of digital illustration or if
you're an amateur video editor making
YouTube videos hardware is important the
type of footage you work with affects
the caliber of hardware that you need so
at the most basic level you want to pick
up as many CPU cores as you can and as
much RAM as you can fit into your budget
if it's 1080p footage you're working
with dual-core CPUs are good i threes
are good and I 5s are great you just
want multiple cores to process stuff
concurrently now 4k footage is kind of
gnarly to process on two cores you can
work with it but quad core i7 chips are
significantly better so if it fits your
budget go for a quad core
and for the graphics card if you work
with the Adobe suite like with Premiere
or After Effects you don't really need a
graphics card they help but integrated
graphics chips in 2015 are pretty
respectable for video editing so don't
sweat it now for random 8 gigs of ram is
comfortable for 1080p footage and it's
usable for 4k footage but aim for 16
gigs if 4k footage is your thing in
terms of drives SSDs are very useful but
they're not required you can always add
an external SSD like the ua SP
enclosures like I mentioned in a
previous video I'll put the link up here
but those are some things that you can
add after you've purchased the notebook
so a quick recap for video or heavy
photo editing on a budget focus more on
CPU cores RAM and an SSD if you can
afford it don't put too much thought
into the video card it may seem
counterintuitive just skimp out on a
video card for video editing but really
it's not that important the last group
of users are gamers if you plan on
playing a lot of games on your notebook
then you're in this group and depending
on the games you want to play your
requirements will vary but in general
the GPU is king here the better your GPU
the better your performance now the bad
news is a lot of companies charge really
hefty premiums for dedicated video cards
Apple comes to mind but the good news is
you can still find some really great
deals on gaming notebooks you just need
to do a little digging and be patient
now for RAM when you're on a budget try
not to get more than 8 gigs of RAM
anything more than that you're not using
in most games and if you have to the
other thing you can kind of chintz out
on is your drive SSDs are awesome for
System snappiness
and load times for apps and games but it
has almost no effect on frame rates in
games so if you can get yourself a
better graphics card by sticking with 8
gigs of RAM and using a regular hard
drive I'd do it a better graphics card
is invariably going to make your games
run better and you can always upgrade
the drive later down the road so for
gamers get a beefed video card because
that's most important don't worry too
much with the CPU dual cores are fine
don't
money on RAM and if you need to sticking
with the standard disk drive is okay
the last thing I want to talk about is
pricing and brands now if you've noticed
I haven't talked about any specific
models or brand so far and the reason is
this the best value for a notebook is
going to come from big volume brands
like Dell or HP or Lenovo the big volume
guys that sell a ton of notebooks every
year and their pricing is normally on
sale but once in a while they have some
real sales like really steep sales and
stuff just goes on like 30 40 50 percent
off and that's where the money is I did
a review on the Alienware 13 a few
months ago and that thing was priced at
$1500 now it was a reasonably well specs
notebook it played games pretty well and
it was reasonably well built but it was
really overpriced at $1500 and then a
few weeks later after a review came out
it dropped down to 1,200 bucks and then
a month and a half later after that I've
dropped down to $900 and at that point
it was a pretty good pickup
so the seemingly obvious conclusion is
this figure it exactly what you want
your notebook to do so you can kind of
determine what features you need to
focus on and what features you can kind
of get rid of and then purchase your
notebook from a big volume seller like
Dell or HP or Lenovo when their stuff is
on a really big sale like right now so
in terms of actual recommendations it's
pretty tough to give one just because
prices for these things fluctuate a lot
and there's literally hundreds of
configurations and like options that you
can kind of tweak to make a notebook fit
your needs but if I had to choose some
favorites right now all right for normal
users the Lenovo G 50 which you can get
for around 4 or 500 if it's Specht well
the 15-inch Dell Inspiron 3004 or 500
bucks depending on how you spec it and I
also like the ACS f55 5 which is a
little bit more expensive but I think
the build quality is slightly better on
that one and for all of these just make
sure you're getting the newer Broadwell
chips so you can take advantage of the
newer integrated graphics cards
for gamers there's two they kind of
stick out right now the lenovo y40 it's
800 bucks and it plays games pretty well
or if you want something that's a little
more durable but quite a bit beefier the
Alienware 13 it's currently at 950
dollars but I think that'll go up and
down a little bit and eventually it'll
hit $900 again for 1080p edits the top
pick for me right now is the previously
mentioned $800 lenovo y40 now just look
at this thing the amount of tech that
they're delivering for $800 is crazy now
for 4k video edits i would recommend the
lenovo y50 which comes in around eleven
twelve hundred dollars for a 4k screen i
normally wouldn't recommend a 4k screen
for any kind of budget oriented notebook
purchase for one they drain batteries
quicker you need better support and
hardware and it's just more expensive
but if you want to edit 4k videos you
can't have to pay the price that's the
end of this video I hope you guys liked
it and if you have any questions
comments type low up again I'm always
open to helping you guys out just ask
away and yeah hope you guys learned a
thing or two it's been nice and I'll see
you guys next time
oh I forgot to mention I'm running a Mac
please don't hate
I haven't switched over to the dark side
or anything I wanted to give El Capitan
a little more screen time just to kind
of use it more so I can give you guys my
thoughts on that all right